I'd like to introduce Melissa Turner and
her lovely assistant Jesus Ahuactzin.
They're going to talk
about J2EE made easier.
Everything about deploying
J2EE applications on
Mac OS X Server including
WebObjects applications.
Thanks Francois.
So at this point I was
supposed to make a joke,
but Francois sort of beat me to the
punch about how after four years of
working with Jesus for this presentation,
I finally actually learned something.
I've learned how to
pronounce his last name.
Four years.
I'm obviously an engineer.
I'm here today to talk about deploying
enterprise applications on Mac OS X,
not surprisingly.
I'm going to give you in this session
an introduction to J2EE and JBoss.
I'm going to discuss
deploying J2EE applications,
managing J2EE applications
once you've got them deployed,
and I'm going to talk a little
bit about deploying WebObjects
applications in JBoss.
What I'm hoping you'll take away from
this presentation is for those of you
who don't already know what J2EE is,
sort of the 30,000 foot
overview of what J2EE is,
a bit of an idea about the
JBoss and JBoss architecture,
some idea of how we've
integrated JBoss with Mac OS X,
how to deploy a J2EE application
on Mac OS X and how to manage it.
J2EE, what is J2EE?
A lot of you have probably heard
this particular acronym by now.
It's been around for several years.
being heckled from down here.
What is it?
It's a platform for building
multi-tier applications.
It's standardized modular
components and basically it uses...
Could whoever is talking please stop?
It's very distracting.
Someone down here.
Is it behind me?
Sorry about that.
Basically the way J2EE works is you have
a container that provides services that
can be used by multiple applications
because there's a lot of things you
don't really need to hard code in every
single application you want to use.
Say, for example,
you want to talk to a database or
you want to send or receive e-mails.
That's not the kind of thing you
should need to reimplement every time
you want to write an application.
So you can offload that
work onto the container.
J2EE's in charge is a set of interfaces
and standards for taking that kind of
work off the application developer's
hands and moving it into the container.
Why do you care about J2EE?
Well, it's one of the best ways to, well,
we think it's one of the better ways,
to implement enterprise
applications so that it isolates
you from a lot of the work.
I just gave you an
example of how to do that.
And it also, you know,
insulates you to a certain
degree from your vendors.
I know one of the big problems with
buying or developing an enterprise
application is platform lock-in.
You decide to go with one
specific vendor and you're
stuck with that vendor forever.
J2EE is an attempt at breaking that
and letting you build your enterprise
application and deploy it to any one
of a number of containers developed
by any one of a number of vendors.
You don't have to worry so
much about your vendor suddenly
jacking up licensing prices.
We don't know any vendors that do that,
do we?
Some of the technologies in the
J2EE area you've probably heard of.
We have EJB, JSP, and Servlets.
Those are the big ones.
EJB is your database
or your business logic.
JSP and Servlet puts
a web front end on it.
Some of the other technologies
you'll hear about - JDBC,
JNDI, JMS.
There's more up there.
Forward looking,
there's stuff like Web Services, Jack,
Sage, a whole bunch of other stuff.
This is mostly slides so those of
you who aren't familiar with these
technologies can scribble down all the
acronyms and go Google for them later.
[Transcript missing]
Sorry about that.
We don't usually do this on stage.
You plug in EJB, JDBC, anything you need.
As your applications grow,
as you've got new responsibilities,
new needs, you plug in more pieces.
If you decide you don't
need some of them,
it's just as easy to take
those pieces back out.
What else do we know about JBoss?
Well, as I said,
they're an open source container.
That means it's primarily
written by developers.
Developers are really
good at writing code,
especially for stuff they need,
but most of the people who do this are,
well, really happy with Emacs,
which means they've got really lousy
deployment and management tools.
Most of these people work, like I said,
in Emacs,
don't see anything wrong with keeping
track of 20 or 30 XML files in Emacs.
We thought there was a
better way to do that,
which brings us to JBoss on Mac OS X.
JBoss is going to be part of Mac OS X.
We're going to be shipping
some developer tools,
deployment on Mac OS X Server,
and we've integrated it with
some of our other tools.
on the client, it's going to be part of
the developer tools package.
You'll get a JBoss
developer configuration,
which is JBoss set up with all
the services that a developer is
likely to need to program against.
And we're going to give you some Xcode
templates for building J2EE applications,
EARs, WARs, JAR files,
that kind of thing.
For those of you who've already been,
and I'm assuming this is
most of you at this point,
poking around on the disks
we gave you on Monday,
it's shipped in the sneak peeks
area of the developer preview CD.
On Mac OS X server it should
be part of the default install.
We're going to use it as
a replacement for Tomcat.
I'll get around to talking
about that a little bit later.
You'll get JBoss.
We'll ship you multiple configurations
because we realize that one configuration
is not going to suit everybody's needs.
Get a management tool
and a deployment tool,
which Jesus will be showing you later.
And we've integrated with server admin.
So those of you who know,
were at my presentation last year
and part of the WebObjects group.
And we've traditionally not
been terribly well integrated.
So with our JBoss product we're
trying to integrate into the
Mac OS X general tools a little bit more.
And for those of you who heard me
say that we're providing JBoss as a
replacement for Tomcat and panicked
because they were using JBoss before,
nothing important has changed.
The biggest change you'll see
is that instead of enabling
Tomcat from the web page,
you now enable it from the
application server page.
Runs on the same port.
It's still in library Tomcat.
And if you want, you can still go in and
configure it to run standalone.
A couple of things have changed that
we think are kind of impressive.
We're going to be
running a newer version,
shipping a newer version,
since we know many, many,
many of you have been
asking for a newer version.
And when you're running the
JBoss Tomcat configuration,
you'll be able to use our tools
to manage and configure it.
Instead of just having
an on/off checkbox,
you'll have a little bit more control.
The other configurations we'll
be shipping are standalone,
which is the basic small
site configuration.
Tomcat Web Server has EJB containers,
JNDI, a few other things.
Corba Orb is in there,
if I remember correctly.
And it supports hot
deployment of applications.
All you need to do is copy your
J2EE application into library,
Jboss 3.2 deploy and if Jboss is running
it'll look there every few seconds,
find that there's a copy or
a new copy if you upgrade,
undeploy if necessary,
redeploy that new application
without you having to intervene.
We're shipping also a
clustered configuration.
Clustered configuration is
almost identical to standalone
configuration except that,
well, it's cluster.
Supports HTTP session
failover for Tomcat,
supports load balancing and it
supports automatically propagating
changes to applications or services
to all nodes in the cluster.
Means that you don't have to worry
about upgrading all of the nodes
if you're upgrading applications.
You just drop it in one and it
will be propagated out to the
rest of the nodes in the cluster.
We're also shipping a
Netboot client configuration.
This is sort of the, "Wow,
we want to build a computing
grid" configuration.
You can centralize your configuration
on one server and tell all of your JBoss
instances to start and download their
configuration from that central point.
It gives you one location to manage.
I've got Netboot Server here
as a configuration.
It's not really a configuration,
but this seemed a good
place to talk about it.
A Netboot server is simply
any WebDAV enabled web server.
For example,
Apache with WebDAV turned on on Mac OS X.
It's pretty simple to set up.
All you have to do is copy the
configuration that you want
distributed to all your Netboot
clients into the Apache document route.
Tell all the network clients
where to go to download their
configuration and it happens.
And at this point I'm going to hand
you off to Jesus who's going to talk
a bit about the application lifecycle
for J2EE applications in JBoss.
Hi everybody, my name is Jesus Ahuactzin.
I learned also to pronounce
my last name today.
I'm here to talk to you about,
before I go into the deployment tool,
I want to tell you how all this fits.
J2 applications are laid
out in such a way that
The application lifecycle can
be taken care of by different
people and with different skills.
Also, each one of these stages can be
handled by different tools so
that people in charge of each one
of these stages can do its job.
So here is the application lifecycle.
The first thing is that
you've got a developer.
The developer is going to be
in charge of developing your
application or your modules.
So once you have your developer
creating all these modules,
they will pass it to the assembler.
The assembler guy is in charge
of collecting all the parts
and pieces of your application.
Because you could have somebody,
some developer,
working very hard in your servlets
and other working in your EJBs.
And then you have somebody who's
collecting all these modules and
integrating them in one application.
He will actually create one unit.
This unit is actually a jar.
And it has a special extension
called "ear". So now here
you have the assembler.
Depending on your organization,
it could be the same guy.
So the developer is actually the
assembler who is getting you the ear.
And now that you have your ear,
you're going to pass it to the deployer.
The deployer is in charge of mapping
the resources that your application
is going to need to those who
are in your application server.
So he maps everything and
now he goes and deploys it.
So you just dump it on your application
server and now his administrator
has to go and look that everything
that your application is going to
use is there and also is going to
monitor that your application's
vital signs are strong and well.
And then again, if something goes wrong,
they're probably going to call the
developer and they have to fix the
things and then you see this circle.
So in each one of these stages,
we wanted to do something for you
to create your J2EE applications.
Yesterday, we have an entire presentation
talking about what we did for the
development and assembling part.
Today, I'm just going to go to do a
brief recap of what we did.
So from Xcode,
what we provide is three new templates.
We create -- we add a
Web module template,
an EJB module template,
and an enterprise application template.
So you can, in fact,
create those modules, as I said,
and then wrap them -- everything
up in one application.
We're using to build this Ant.
Ant is becoming the factory standard
for creating Java applications,
so we wanted to leverage that.
And not only that,
it allows us to use other
technologies that are out there,
like XDocklet, that could create or
generate a web application.
So we have a lot of different tools
that could create or generate the
interfaces that your application needs
and also the deployment descriptors.
So for the assembling part, well,
we are -- it happens in the build
phase and is using XDocklet.
Again,
XDocklet is an open source tool that
-- what it allows you is that you hint
in your source code which information
is going to be in your interfaces
and your deployment descriptors.
If you hint in your code,
you have some experience with J2E,
you know that sometimes you spend a lot
of time not on your code but creating
tons of files about the interfaces
that you need and tons of files --
and tons of deployment descriptors.
So the idea is that we provide
a way for you to write the code,
hint the deployment --
hint the XDocklet engine,
and so the XDocklet engine could
go and create those files for you.
So we have a way -- the benefits that you
get is that we have a central platform.
We have a central platform that we
can use to create the XDocklet engine.
So we have a way -- the benefits
that you get is that we have a
central platform that we can use
to create the XDocklet engine.
So we have a way -- the benefits that
you get is that we have a central
place where you can synchronize
your deployment descriptors and
your source code and also synchronize
all those deployment descriptors.
So now we have the developer
part and the assembly part.
Here is just an example of xDocklet.
As you can see,
xDocklet is just an extension
of JavaDock and what we are
telling is just some hints about,
for example,
this is going to be a session
state lesbian and then we
just run your application.
As a result,
we create deployment descriptors for you
and also we create all the interfaces.
So now we're done with the
assembly part and it's time to
talk about the deployment part.
So the first you might ask is why are
we interested in creating such a tool?
Well, you know,
J2EE applications have this
characteristic that allow you
to change the behavior of your
application at deployment time.
The idea is that each application will
have a set of deployment descriptors
that are in your application.
If you change those
deployment descriptors,
you might change your application
behavior in different circumstances.
So a deployment descriptor
actually is a way,
a declarative way to figure out
which services the container
will impose on your bins.
So you can tell, for example,
to tell your container to use a
specific data source when your
application is running on testing.
And then when you want to deploy
it on production to tell you to
use a completely different one.
And you do this by changing this
information not in the application
itself but rather by tweaking
the deployment descriptors.
So, so far so cool, right?
This is really great.
Well, if you think of all the
information that you have that
you can manage in this fashion,
you soon realize that this
is becomes not a problem.
You can actually manage
this in a very simple way.
So, you can actually manage
So, you can actually manage this
in a very a trivial task.
Only one has to go and look at all
the deployment descriptors and all
the interrelationships between those
Even for the simplest application
to realize that just using IMAX is
not going to get us anywhere.
So a tool with a friendly
UI becomes necessary.
We decided to create one.
When we were sitting down saying, well,
which technology should we
use to create this tool?
Well, you know,
in one side we have all these
schemas and DTDs that we're modeling,
the deployment descriptors,
and in the other hand we wanted to
create an HTML-based application.
But we didn't want to spend a lot of
time just constructing HTML pages with
text fields that would actually update
the information in the XML files.
So we say, well,
why don't we just go with the
only capable of doing that?
So we decided to do a WebObjects
application using direct to web.
So not only that, we leverage some of the
technology that's out there.
Essentially,
specifically we use Java XML bindings.
And this layer,
what it allows us is to marshal
and unmarshal information from
the XML files into the objects.
On the top of that layer
that is provided by Jaxby,
we added an EOF layer.
And over the top of that EOF layer,
we use our direct to web components
and our rules and our web components.
And that's how we created our tool.
But you know, we didn't just want to
create a fancy XML editor.
We wanted to provide some
value added to our tool.
We think that one of the things
that are important for the
deployer is to get some info,
to actually get the information
that sometimes leaves in
the application container.
So we didn't want to go
to the application server
and get that information.
We wanted to provide a way for
the user to have it just there.
So we opened a channel,
a communication channel between the
application and the application server,
and we pulled that information
that we think is important for the
player to know at deployment time.
Not only that,
we also do some cross-linking.
The idea is that all these deployment
descriptors that you can have,
have reference within one another.
And we wanted to organize and present
it so you didn't have to find out,
well, this information actually lives in
here or it should actually be there.
We try to hide you from that and
organize the information so you
have just to change in one place.
And finally, we do some verification.
The verification is not only us
going and trying to apply the
constraints that the schemas and
DTDs are imposing on those files.
We ask our J2EE expert and
find out that there are some
validations that are unnecessary,
that are not part of the
deployment descriptors,
that are convenient for you to look.
And instead of going and then realizing
later that you have a problem,
you can... You can fix the problem when
you are deploying your application.
So why don't you just stop
talking about the deployment
tool and show you how it works.
So the first thing I want to do
is load my application and what
I have here is an expat store here.
The expat store here actually was built
yesterday on the presentation of the
J2EE presentation we had yesterday.
I tweaked it so it works for
the purpose of this demo.
So what we're doing is we load
our application and what we are
doing first is we're trying to
do that verification I told you.
We try to do some validation
and if we find that there
are missing data in your ear,
we try to flag it so you know up front
that you have some problems that you
have to fix before you deploy it.
So let me just give a brief tour of
the navigation bar that I have here.
In the top I have some actions that
are self-explanatory and I will
go a little bit more in detail on
what CONNECT is and why it's there.
Then in the bottom side what we
have is more or less the structure
that you will find in your ear.
In this case what you see is that we
have three branches and each one is
representing a WAR file in your ear
or a JAR file in the case for EJBs.
So the idea is,
so for example in here I will
have a deployment descriptor that
corresponds to the entire ear.
The deployment descriptor in the ear
is the easiest one.
And the idea is, well,
it just tells you what
information is inside of your ear.
As you can see,
we are just describing which
modules are in your ear.
And they are the same that
we are describing that
are in the navigation bar.
But I wanted to bring this here because
I wanted to show you this stuff,
the JBoss stuff.
So what we are doing right now
is we're trying to provide,
JBoss also needs some information related
to your application that sometimes
is necessary and sometimes it is not.
In this case, we don't need it.
But what I wanted to bring up is
that we tried to put the information
that you need in one spot.
We didn't want to go and click
another place to find out,
well, if I want to configure
the JBoss specific files.
We wanted to provide it just there.
there.
[Transcript missing]
In here what you have is the
deployment descriptor for your web app.
If you're familiar with serverless,
you know that this file is
the file web.xml that lives
inside the webinf directory.
So you can change information here.
You will have -- you see that you
can have information about the
serverless mappings or filters.
And the idea is that you can
change this information or if you
just want to look how it looks,
well, it's there.
Now, you see that I also
have a servlet section.
And the idea is that if you have
seen a web.xml file is that in each,
in this file,
you will have sections where you
are describing also your servlets.
We didn't want to put all
that information in the top,
but rather present it as
servlets in a different link.
So if you wanted to modify
some information related
to one specific servlet,
you could do it by just clicking,
do one click.
So here it is.
Here is the servlet information.
There are initial parameters,
when you can, how,
if you want to load it on the startup,
etc.
There are some security issues,
some security features that
you might want or not modify.
But the most interesting
part comes in the EJBs.
And why is this more interesting?
Well, because you can at least have
three files to configure this.
You can have the EJB.xml file,
you can have the JBoss.xml file,
and for your CMPs you can
have the JBoss.xml file.
Those files are going to be interrelated
and there will be information,
again, in the top level and there will be
information that you can have in
sections for each one of your bins.
And so let me just show you what
I have here in the top level.
And so something that is interesting
and convenient for you is that
if you set some defaults in the
higher level of your archive,
that information can be used as default
for each one of your individual bins.
This is pretty convenient because,
for example, if I want to go to the
CMP default settings,
you see that I have the data source
and data source mapping in here.
And the idea is that if I go
to one of my entity bins,
order item is one of those,
and I go to CMP database mapping,
you see that the data source is
choosing the default setting and
there is no data source mapping.
I'm saying that I need both,
but I'm not setting it and I'm not
putting it in red because I know
that you have a valid default.
and the Archive level.
So what this allows you is to
make changes at the higher level
and then forget about making
changes in the individual bins.
And that's really convenient.
So, if we go to account,
what I want to do is,
now that you see we have account,
we have this thing is the one
who is having some problems.
And I know it has some problems
because I went to the file and
delete the table name of the entity
bean and also the column names for
the attributes of the entity bean.
What I want to do now is if I go here and
I go try to do CMPBase database mapping,
you see that you have a data
source that is not being set and
where this information is coming?
Well, if you actually see here,
we can connect to the application
server and when we connect,
we are already connected but
I unfortunately lose the other guy.
That's bad.
So let me just bring it back.
Sorry for that.
that.
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
so let me just go back to account and
then go to the CMP-based data mapping.
And see,
so if you remember we have popups
here and now we don't have them.
And the idea is, well,
if I want to make now these changes
I have to remember that information.
And so that's when I say that we
added this functionality so we
could connect to the server and,
well, now it didn't close.
That's pretty cool.
So we connect to the server.
And if we go back to that bin.
and go to see the CMP database mapping.
We see that now we have the popups.
And essentially what we are saying is
we are becoming a J2EE Java client.
Our WebObjects becomes a J2EE client.
And ask the server,
where are your data sources?
And so he introspects in itself
which data sources he has.
And he sent us, well,
here's the data source you can have.
And then I can choose the hypersonic,
I guess, SQL database that is in JBoss.
And then, as you can see,
I'm also introspecting which
are the tables that are
associated to this data source.
So instead of me remembering
which table should I put here,
I can just go and select it.
Then if we go to this guy,
We are going to see that we have user ID,
we can select it.
Now we have introspected the
table and see which columns you
have and then we can update.
And then go to the other guy.
And here we can choose password.
And before I'm done,
you see that we have a warning here.
It says that the original choice bar card
is not available on the JBoss server.
So what happens is that we went to the
ear and we find out that the choice
that you have in your ear doesn't really
match to anything that JBoss can have.
So what we -- and essentially the
problem is that JBoss wants to
provide a fully qualified type.
And what we did is we put
just the bar card thing.
So I know that it's going to run,
that it's not going to be a problem.
But what I'm trying to tell you is
that we try to find out where you say,
well, this is not actually
qualifies as an error.
But, you know,
you might look at it because if --
what you don't want to do is like,
well, I just ignore whatever you tell me.
It's fine.
I just deploy it.
And then when you -- and then you
have your application is crashing
and then you have to go to the
bulk cycles to find out that,
oh, what happens is that JBoss is
not supporting the bar card.
I have to provide the
full qualified type.
So the idea is that we warn you before
you go into deploying your application.
So we
So we update here and then
we finally update here.
Okay, and so now that we
changed that information,
we click on validation application.
As you can see,
we went through the rules,
find out that this is a valid ear,
and now we should be able
to just simply save our ear.
Let's see if I have it here.
So what I'm going to do is going
to save it in the deploy directory
of the ExpatStore configuration.
And if everything is fine,
Okay, so it was saved now.
So now JBoss will look in
periodically pools and look
that if there is some new year,
if it is one year there,
it will try to load it and launch it.
So let me just...
I want to show you that you can
see what is happening on JBoss.
So here I want to go to
the logs and then do...
Okay,
so this is the log that JBoss is spewing
in and at some moment we hopefully
will see that JBoss is speaking that
year and is actually deploying it.
So we have to wait a second
or two or three or four
[Transcript missing]
It don't deploy other stuff,
but it should spew some information
and at the end should say,
"I deployed this thing." So,
I don't know if you guys
can... Let me just bring...
Okay, so I think I have a problem
with the network and maybe
I'm not able to show you this.
Okay, so it's not picking it up.
Well,
I would love to show you the expert story
that's been deployed and it in fact,
it will,
that's the way you do your deployment.
Unfortunately,
I won't be able to show you.
I don't know why it's not picking it up.
But, so let's suppose that you see a big,
Green Parrot here and that is the demo.
Sorry for that.
But it's not picking it up.
It's JBoss not picking up the ear.
Okay, so sorry for that.
I promise that when you do this,
it won't happen.
With that, I leave Melissa to...
So obviously we're doing
a presentation because,
you know,
it's not a presentation unless at
least one demo decides to go haywire.
Because that was our deployment tool,
that is, we think, by and large,
the thing you're going to
appreciate most about our offering.
The UI is going to get
cleaned up a little bit,
we're still working on it,
but it should make deploying
J2EE applications a lot easier.
But once you've got your
application deployed,
you have to manage it.
Our management tools
come in two components.
We've basically given you two parts.
We've done a plug-in for server admin,
and we have a web-based
management and configuration tool.
What these two together allow you to
do is manage your JBoss configurations.
You can start and stop the server.
You can start and stop
individual services.
You can view and
configure those services.
That last one sounds
a little bit strange,
but--
There's reasons for configuring
the services themselves.
You may want to add new
JMS topics and queues.
You may decide that you
need to increase the number,
the size of a connection
pool for your CMP stuff,
reasons like that.
So you need to be able to
configure your container as well.
And in the JBoss world,
that's configuring the services.
And at this point,
Jesus is going to give you another demo.
This time he's going to walk
through the management tool.
JESSE HEIMERL: So hopefully this-- we
won't have problems here.
I won't promise you that.
So we have the server admin.
So now you can -- what you can
do is you have your application
server as part of your server admin.
It's part of the services that
are vended for Mac OS X Server.
So you can see that the application
server is listed as any other
service like FTP or open directory.
And
So you can select it and you can stop the
service or start the service as you wish.
So if you click in there,
we have the first page as well.
It's just a status page telling you
if the application is running or not,
what type of configuration it has,
the version of the application server,
et cetera.
Most interesting information you
will find in the server section.
There are two logs that
I want to talk to you about.
The first one is the boot log.
This is important because this is
information that's going to be recorded
by JBoss when it starts the first time.
So if you're having problems with JBoss,
not launching applications
or something like that,
you might want to go to here
and see if there is a problem.
So it's a good place to
start doing some diagnostic.
And then the other one is server log.
Here in server log,
you can find all the information that
the server at runtime is recording.
Some of the information is important as
like the life cycle of the application.
So when it gets deployed or undeployed,
the information is going
to be recorded here.
But also if your
application is misbehaving,
you will have like runtime exceptions.
Those problems are
going to be logged here.
So then again,
it's a way -- a good place for
you to start looking for problems.
Finally, we have the settings part.
And the settings part, what we have,
you can choose your configuration.
Melissa already told you that you
can have a remote configuration
or a Tomcat only configuration.
In this case,
I'm using a local configuration
and it's a special one.
I create one called expet store.
So and you have a button.
The button essentially what it does
is that it brings the management tool.
Observe that I'm going through HTTP.
So your username and password
or configuration are not going
in clear text through the wire.
Here something interesting as well.
What you first might ask is why we
are using an authentication face here.
Well, we have two roles.
You can have an administrator role
and essentially he's allowed to
change the configuration information
in the application server.
And he can monitor your applications.
And we have a user model.
So you can see that he's able to
see the code where it's just the
monitoring part that he can see.
So you can tell which users
can modify configurations.
Now look that I am typing root
and I'm using -- the user root
that I'm putting here is actually
the root guy for this system.
So what I'm trying to say is that we
are interfacing with directory services.
So we don't provide a funky little
administration capability in this
tool for your users and passwords.
We are leveraging all that
structure to the directory services.
So if you already have your services
and they already are assigned if they
belong to wheel or whatever and they
are in that info servers or servers,
I don't care.
We will reuse that information.
So I'm going to log in and
if I remember the password,
then it will be just very cool.
Okay, so you have three
possibilities of choosing here.
The first two will only be seen by the
administrator and also the third one,
but for the users that only care
about the applications state,
you will see only the last row.
So I'm going to choose the
expert store configuration and
show you a little bit about it.
So what you see is we
see all the services.
[Transcript missing]
is not showing them.
Very good.
Let me see if I can see just the
deploy standalone configuration.
There you go.
So in here what we're
seeing is the services.
All the services that your
application server is offering.
And so you can select one of this
and then look at the information,
like for example I'm seeing
right now the mail service.
And then you can actually go
and change that information.
This information is going to be
actually saving the application server.
So you don't have to go through
your application server,
look which is the proper
XML file to modify it.
You can modify it there.
You can do it in here.
We also have other services
like Tomcat that is interesting.
We're using Tomcat.
So you can see we have Catalina.
And so you have all the attributes.
You can change the attributes
of your Tomcat server from here.
And other stuff that you can do is
we were using a data for the first
demo I did for deployment tool.
We were using a data for the first
So you can create a data source,
a expert store data source.
Well you can create that data source.
I already have it.
But you actually create
that data source from here.
You click in here.
You provide information.
And we add that data source.
That data source could point to
another database like Oracle.
We were using hypersonic SQL.
But you can do all that
management work from here.
And that would be our demo
for the management tool.
That would sort of be
the management tool.
As we said,
it's web-based because we know
a lot of people want to manage
their configurations remotely.
Hey, you have a Blackberry
running over Bluetooth?
Theoretically,
you could manage if you could
actually get the bandwidth.
As we said, it's secure.
We use SSL and Open Directory.
What can we say?
Security is a big thing
for a lot of people.
We didn't want to have --
because we were plugging in
with the open directory stuff,
we didn't want to have your
passwords floating around clear text,
so we actually wrote an adapter for
the WebObjects application to talk SSL.
I've had at least one question
about that from people,
so I'm the person you want to talk to.
I'm the one who did that.
And it allows you to view and
configure deployed services
and start and stop services.
It also does a few other things.
It lets you deploy applications and
monitor deployed applications because,
well,
this is a large part of what management
tools are supposed to let you do.
Jesus is going to talk again.
Okay,
so let's -- so from here I can change
the configuration I'm looking at,
but in this case I'm not
modifying the configuration.
Essentially what it does is
takes me to the first page,
and now I can actually monitor
my applications running.
So we're not running?
That would explain why your
deployment wasn't taking.
So which server?
Can we know which port we are running?
Try stop and start it.
So here is, you can stop the application
server and you can start it.
And just one button.
Isn't that great?
Check the log.
And if you're having problems
trying to start it up,
you can have, you know, so here.
[Transcript missing]
There we go.
Okay.
So let me see if I can monitor.
Select new configuration.
and David Koehn.
I feel like those are not related.
Okay.
So apparently JBoss has
decided to drive us nuts.
- Wait,
you should go into the manage thing.
- To the-- - Top one.
- Okay, so we'll fake it.
Scoot.
Told him to scoot.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so now, well, actually,
given that we're running out of time,
that's not such a bad thing.
But what you would see if you were
seeing this is Jesus would go into
the same page where he was showing the
logout and change configuration pages.
He would be able to click on
the deploy application button.
A sheet would come down and let him pick
which application he wanted to deploy.
He'd hit deploy application.
And the application would be
uploaded through the management tool,
pushed out to the JBoss configuration,
written into the deploy directory.
And from there,
everything would be as per normal,
as everything would happen exactly
the way it would if you had
copied a file into that directory.
And now comes the brief WebObjects
and J2EE section of this.
You can now deploy WebObjects
applications in JBoss.
We're providing support for building
.wars in the WebObjects world from Xcode.
And those of you who've worked with
previous versions of our product
probably know that you could,
in 5.2, create a .wo directory that
could also be used as a .war and
deployed as an exploded directory.
For the next release,
we're hoping to provide the ability
to deploy as a single-file archive,
which means we've had to do some
reworking of the NSBundle loading stuff.
And for those of you who didn't
actually believe us when we said in 5.1
that we were deprecating some of the
NSBundle and NSResourceManager APIs,
we've done it.
If you try and run a bundle or run
an application which is bundled as an
archive and you're using those APIs,
things are going to go drastically wrong.
We told you so.
We also have the ability to
package our frameworks as
JAR archives so that you can then
embed them inside other archives.
You can load them that way.
And we're providing support
for JNDI properties.
What this means is that,
as many of you know,
if you run inside a container,
system properties becomes a
pretty vague and nebulous thing.
So we have support for using JNDI as
a properties lookup mechanism.
If we find things in JNDI properties or
if we find properties files set up there,
we won't actually try and
access system resources.
So it gives you two places to look,
two ways to configure your application.
I think we've also added a few extra
properties just for containers,
but I don't remember what they are.
At this point,
Jesus is sort of going to show you that
we actually can and have done this.
This is easy because we don't
actually have to use the tools.
This is all from the command line.
But we need gate balls anyway,
so... Well, not really.
We can show them that hello-world.org
is actually a WebObjects application.
Interesting.
So we can do that internally.
Okay.
Let's try to deploy it.
And if JBoss is willing,
we'll see our hello-world application.
It's a WebObjects application in a
single deployment directory form.
We'll see it run.
So what I'm going to do is
just take the hello-world.org.
And the only thing I should do
is just go and copy it over to
the deploy directory of JBoss.
In the same fashion as
the expat store should,
in some moments, pick it up,
and I should be able to show
you from the web browser.
We can give it a shot anyway.
I can try.
So now it's like a nice time to do
those pullings about how many do you
think this thing is going to work.
Show of hands, how many of you think
this one's going to work?
There they are.
Oh, we have optimism.
We have believers.
Good.
You like us.
Okay, so let's see.
Hello world.
No, we have a problem.
We didn't have network.
Oh.
Yeah, this is-- It's-- well,
we had problems earlier,
so we had to take this
host off the network.
And it looks like we may have
quite thoroughly confused
its networking capabilities.
Apparently, it's not capable of believing
that it's not on a network,
but it should still allow
the loopback address to work.
So who could have known?
You know, it's a presentation.
They gave us the machines
15 minutes beforehand.
That's why we started late.
Sorry.
So anyway, so what we've shown you,
or at least we've told
you if not shown you,
is that you can develop
J2EE applications on Mac OS X client.
You can deploy them on
Mac OS X Server in JBoss.
We have the best tools
out there for JBoss,
and they'll get better, we promise.
We've got an assembly tool that
will make your life a lot easier.
I know you might have looked at it and
thought that looks awfully complicated.
Trust me.
Trust Stefan,
who's sitting over there in the audience.
Things cannot get worse
than Emacs and XML files.
And you can deploy WebObjects in JBoss,
and I know that's something that
a lot of you have been asking for.
So at this point, for more information,
go to the website, jboss.com/jboss.
This is mostly for the DVDs later,
but these are the people you can
contact if you've got questions
about this presentation.
Here's the reference library.
Places to go, things to read.
This is a little bit
more interesting for us,
I think.
This is the open source projects that
we're attached with or that we're using
that you might want to go have a look at.
We've got the sourceforge.net
project for JBoss.
There are actually two
separate organizations.
There's JBoss.org,
which is a commercial arm group
that does development of JBoss and
sells consulting services for it.
And then there's the open
source project itself.
That's where you'd find Tomcat
at Apache and that's where you'd
find the Ant and X Docklet stuff.